I hope you guys like that intro because
I changed it up at the last second how's
it going guys this is Dave TV and this
is my review of the Samsung Galaxy Note
5 so every year that goes by phones are
getting bigger screen sizes are getting
bigger and for the most part companies
just kind of keep up with that trend by
making bigger versions of phones and
there's nothing wrong with that but
Samsung has always had the notes line
and they add extra functionality to
their large screen devices by adding a
pen or a stylus and the truth is I've
never really enjoyed using the note line
mostly because I find them very
uncomfortable to hold and they're also
often very ugly but this year things
have changed drastically I've had mine
for a week in a bit use it heavily with
a lot of emphasis on that s-pen here are
my thoughts the note 5 starts at $750
off contracts and in the Box we get the
phone itself some pamphlets the sim tool
and underneath you get some earbuds USB
fast charger and some spare pen tips the
design elements are very similar to the
s6 and the s6 edge lots of Gorilla Glass
for lots of metal and I think it looks
really nice but like every other glass
covered phone fingerprints are a real
issue here so if it bothers you I would
highly recommend picking up a D brand
skin at least for the back because it
gives you a little bit of grip and they
look good in the process the front has a
fingerprint sensing home button here and
two capacitive buttons both of these
things work well going around we have a
power button on the right side mic and
SIM card slot on the top volume rocker
on the left side and on the bottom we
have a headphone jack micro USB port a
speaker and the s-pen holster I like the
s6 the speaker here is pretty
unimpressive it's a single speaker
reasonably loud but it sounds tinny and
hollow and is projecting downwards right
so that's never ideal the s-pen is
really well implemented this year it has
a clickable top which you can use to
inject the pen and slide it out and the
mechanical clicker feels really well
made and it's seriously addictive
they also give you two kinds of nibs
that you can replace so there's a black
nib which is like a softer rubber and if
I had to describe it it's like kind of
like a mechanical pencil when you're
using it and the gray one is a harder
plastic it feels more slippery and I
don't like this one as much it feels
kind of like an old Palm Pilot so often
where for the S Pen is improved across
the board there are a ton of things you
can do with the pen and depending on
what you're doing on screen like the
function of ejecting the pen does
different things so I tried all these
out
pretty extensively and some of them are
really cool but for the most part
they're very situational like really
situational like this one here the
ability to screencap multiple pages into
one long strip and then to annotate it
features like this are really cool and
I'm sure some people will find them
really useful but it's not something
most people would use regularly there's
also a little bit of UI lag with the S
Pen overlay which is kind of weird when
you consider how fast that processor is
and it kind of casts a shadow on the
whole s-pen experience because you
constantly have to wait a split second
before you can scribble stuff down but
there is one really practical and super
fast feature which is the ability to jot
down something on the screen immediately
after ejecting the pen so this feels
really natural and it's actually one of
the main features that drew me to the
phone I use it a lot it's fast it's
simple and it works for almost
everything you would normally use a
piece of paper for okay my take on the
whole pen gate thing when I first heard
about it I thought why would you ever
put it in backwards like it's super
obvious to put it in tip first but after
using it for a week I can totally see
how people can do it by accident and
it's crazy how easily it slides in the
wrong way and how little you actually
have to slide it in to cause physical
damage I mean I wish Samsung had
designed the pen a little differently if
you put it in backwards even like a
couple inches it gets caught on a tiny
little lever and it'll break the lever
and sometimes just break the pen so just
don't do it
the TouchWiz UI is relatively light this
year I mean there's less Samsung sauce
covering everything
there has been in previous years but
it's still there and I've never been a
fan of it I know some people love it
it's on buggy or anything but I just
prefer the look of stock much more so I
go with the material design theme on
their theme store it's a really nice
screen AMOLED quad HD one of the best
screens if not the best excellent
viewing angles super bright and visible
in sunlight whites look white and blacks
are super deep now the colors are a
little oversaturated like you'd expect
on an AMOLED but it's a fantastic screen
I like the note 5 screen more than the
iPhone 6 plus screen and the Nexus 6
screen the camera is really solid same
camera as the s6 that we'd expect it to
be great and it doesn't disappoint
excellent photos when there's lots of
light very usable photos in low-light
situations and the videos are also
really solid up to 4k video at 30 frames
per second it's got good dynamic range
good colors I really love this camera
performance is super fast games run
really well apps run well and the UI is
just really really snappy but as I
mentioned before there is a little lag
with some of the s-pen UI but aside from
that I never experienced any noticeable
slowdowns the battery life is really
good I considered a comfortable all day
battery screen on time was usually like
four or four and a half hours and on
days with really heavy use I would have
about 10-15 percent left at night so
when you're done for the day turn off
the lights and charge it wirelessly okay
recap of the Galaxy Note 5 it's got a
5.7 inch AMOLED display really wonderful
screen one of the best in the business a
fast fingerprint reader with two
capacitive buttons a five megapixel
front-facing camera all covered with
Gorilla Glass 4 on the back we have a 13
megapixel camera that is arguably the
best camera on smartphones right now and
a Gorilla Glass 4 back that gets covered
in fingerprints on the inside we have a
3000 milliamp battery that easily gets
you through a full day and eight core
beast the Exynos 7420 with 4 gigs of RAM
ridiculously fast aside from that pen UI
32 or 64 gigs of non-expandable storage
and also has NFC and wireless charging
that supports fast wireless charging if
you have
the pad for it okay so some closing
thoughts the note 5 is clearly a
top-of-the-line smartphone everything
about it is like flagship and premium
and it's great but it comes at a very
expensive price so it's value or whether
or not it's worth it really depends on
how much you're going to make use out of
that pen because really that s-pen is
what distinguishes this thing and it
kind of defines the whole product so if
you're an avid pen user and you're
coming from previous notes go for this
thing it's an amazing device you're
going to love it but you're not I mean
it's a great device even if you don't
use the pen but you're going to get
better value out of other phones if
you're not a pen user so that's the end
of this review hope you guys liked it if
you did give me some thumbs if you loved
it give me some subs it's been nice I'll
see you guys next time